In this lesson, we're going to begin to
see how to build a class by writing a
constructor that will initialize the
fields of the name
class, which is an example we're going to
use.
So we'll start off by opening a file
called name.py.
In this particular example, we're going to
put the
class definition in the same file as our
working program.
But later on in the course, I'll show you
how to move the class definition into its
own module.
The first thing we do when we want to
define a class is use the keyword class
followed
by the name of the class, and in this
case, the name is name, which is kind of
confusing.
Class names are usually capitalized to
distinguish them from
other types of objects, such as variables
and objects.
Following the class name, we have a colon.
In most other languages, you have to
declare
variables first, and in another language
such as Java,
right here, we would clear the fields that
are going to define the attributes of our
class.
But because we don't have to declare
variables in advance
in Python, we can move straight to
something called the constructor.
The constructor is used to perform
something called instantiation, which is
just a
fancy way of saying we want to create an
instance of a class.
Each instance of a class is a separate
object, and those objects have to
be created or instantiated, and it's the
job of the constructor to perform that
instantiation.
A constructor is a function, although in
object
oriented programming terms, we don't talk
about functions.
We call functions methods.
So constructors will be the first type
methods that we learn how to create.
The constructor is a special type of
method, and it has its own particular
name.
It's called init.
And notice that it's preceded by
two underscores and followed by two
underscores.
It's a built-in name, in other words, and
we use it exactly like that.
After the constructor name, we provide a
parameter list, and
the parameter list always starts of with
the parameter named self.
Self refers to the current instance of a
class, and
I'll explain more about what that means in
a minute.
Then we follow that with the parameters
that will define the rest of our
class, in this case, the name, so that
will be first, middle and last.
Then in the body of the constructor, we'll
write: self.first equals first, because
our first field, the first piece of data
to define a name is the first name.
We use self again because it's talking
about the current object, the current
instance, and we say self.middle equals
middle and self.last equals last.
Now, before we go on to define anymore of
the class, which you'll do in the coming
lessons, let me go ahead and show you how
we would create an instance of the class.
We just provide a variable name.
Then we use the class name, followed by an
open
parenthesis, followed by the data that
makes up the name.
Now getting back to the keyword self.
When this code is executed, self is
referring
to the current object, which will be
aName.
And in Python, you almost always have to
reference a field using self.
So, we write self.first, meaning we're
talking
about the first name of this object.
And then, self.middle is talking about the
middle name of
the aName object, and then self.last
references, the last
name of this current object when this line
is being executed.
If we created another object, then at the
time of instantiations, self is referring
to that object.
So that wraps up this lesson on
constructors and fields.
And we're ready to move on to the next
lesson, where we're
going to talk about how to write methods
to go with our class.